In the previous section, we already learn
about dynamic routing eigrp and ospf.
Next in this section, we are going to learn
about dynamic routing BGP.
So what is the differences between eigrp ospf and bgp? EIGRP
and OSPF is IGP or interior gateway protocol,
but BGP is EGP or exterior gateway protocol.
What is IGP and EGP?
IGP is used inside autonomous system. And
EGP is used between Autonomous System.
What is Autonomous System? In simple word, we
can say that Autonomous System is a Company.
So let’s say here we have Google,
absolutely google have a network right?
So we have many router inside google. And
we also have many server inside google.
All of server and router is connected each
others. So here we have an autonomous system.
Every autonomous system will have an identifier,
which is a number, so let’s say the
autonomous system number of google is 100.
Next, let’s say here we have facebook, inside
facebook, we also have many router an many server.
So here we also have an autonomous
system, let’s say autonomous system 200.
Next, let’s say here we also have twitter,
we have many router and server here,
so here we also have an autonomous
system, let’s say autonomous system 300.
So the summary is, autonomous system
is a network inside a company.
To connecting many router inside autonomous
system, we can use IGP, you are free to choose
between EIGRP or OSPF or actually, we also
have other choices for IGP, which is IS-IS.
So let’s say in google, we use eigrp, ospf,
or is-is. If all of the router is cisco,
we can use EIGRP, but if the router not
only cisco, let’s say we have juniper,
Huawei, hp and others, so
we can use OSPF or IS-IS.
And then to connecting between autonomous
system or between company, we will use EGP.
In EGP, we just have 1 choice, which is
BGP. So to connecting google and twitter,
connecting google and facebook, connecting
facebook and twitter, and others, we must use BGP.
Okay so that is the concept of Autonomous system.
I think enough for this video, in the next video we are going to learn about BGP.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.